Migrate IntersectionObserver v2 article (#4760)
GoogleChrome/web.dev: src/site/content/en/blog/intersectionobserver-v2/index.md

---

> title: Trust is Good, Observation is Better—Intersection Observer v2

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: "Trust is good, observation is better: Intersection Observer v2"
```

subhead: |

>   Intersection Observer v2 adds the capability to not only observe intersections per se, but to also

Reviewer: Is "v2" how this is styled on the spec itself? I am unable to find the actual spec.

Author: It's indeed used like that: https://w3c.github.io/IntersectionObserver/v2/#ref-for-intersectionobserver⑤:~:text=V2.

  detect if the intersecting element was visible at the time of intersection.
authors:
  - thomassteiner
description: |
  Intersection Observer v2 adds the capability to not only observe intersections per se, but to also
  detect if the intersecting element was visible at the time of intersection.
date: 2019-02-15
updated: 2021-02-26
tags:
  - blog
  - intersectionobserver
hero: image/8WbTDNrhLsU0El80frMBGE4eMCD3/wUCO2CgK5UOz6URpXEtd.jpeg
alt: Eye of a cat looking through a gap in a fence.
---

Intersection Observer&nbsp;v1 is one of those APIs that's probably universally loved, and, now that
[Safari supports it](https://webkit.org/blog/8582/intersectionobserver-in-webkit/) as well,
it's also finally universally usable in all major browsers. For a quick refresher of the API,
I recommend watching [Surma](../../../resources/contributors/surma)'s
[Supercharged Microtip](https://www.youtube.com/embed/kW_atFXMG98) on Intersection

> Observer&nbsp;v1—also embedded below for your viewing pleasure—or reading Surma's in-depth

Reviewer: Since this is an old article, I'm skipping a lot of writing feedback I would normally give. This part of the sentence loses me completely.

Author: Massively simplified. These horrible [intertwingled](https://www.urbandictionary.com/define.php?term=intertwingled) sentences…

> I recommend watching [Surma](../../../resources/contributors/surma)'s
> [Supercharged Microtip](https://www.youtube.com/embed/kW_atFXMG98) on Intersection
> Observer&nbsp;v1—also embedded below for your viewing pleasure—or reading Surma's in-depth
> [article](../../2016/04/intersectionobserver).

Author: ```suggestion
I recommend watching [Surma](../../../resources/contributors/surma)'s
[Supercharged Microtip](https://www.youtube.com/embed/kW_atFXMG98) on Intersection
Observer&nbsp;v1 that is embedded below.
You can also read Surma's in-depth
[article](https://developers.google.com/web/updates/2016/04/intersectionobserver).
```

People have used Intersection Observer&nbsp;v1 for a wide range of use cases like
[lazy loading of images and videos](../../../fundamentals/performance/lazy-loading-guidance/images-and-video/),
[being notified when elements reach `position: sticky`](../../2017/09/sticky-headers),

> [fire analytics events](https://github.com/ampproject/amphtml/blob/master/extensions/amp-analytics/0.1/visibility-manager.js),

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[firing analytics events](https://github.com/ampproject/amphtml/blob/master/extensions/amp-analytics/0.1/visibility-manager.js),
```

and many more.

{% YouTube 'kW_atFXMG98' %}

For the full details, check out the
[Intersection Observer docs on MDN](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Intersection_Observer_API),
but as a short reminder, this is what the Intersection Observer&nbsp;v1 API looks like in the most
basic case:

```js
const onIntersection = (entries) => {
  for (const entry of entries) {
    if (entry.isIntersecting) {
      console.log(entry);
    }
  }
};

const observer = new IntersectionObserver(onIntersection);
observer.observe(document.querySelector('#some-target'));
```

## What's challenging with Intersection Observer&nbsp;v1?

To be clear, Intersection Observer&nbsp;v1 is great, but it's not perfect. There are
some corner cases where the API falls short. Let's have a closer look!

> The Intersection Observer&nbsp;v1 API can perfectly tell you when an element is scrolled into the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Intersection Observer&nbsp;v1 API can tell you when an element is scrolled into the
```

window's viewport, but it *doesn't* tell you whether the element is covered
by any other page content (that is, when the element is occluded) or whether
the element's visual display has been modified by visual effects like `transform`, `opacity`,
`filter`, etc., which *effectively* can make it invisible.

Now while for an element in the top-level document this information can be determined by analyzing
the DOM via JavaScript, for example via
[`DocumentOrShadowRoot.elementFromPoint()`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/DocumentOrShadowRoot/elementFromPoint)
and then digging deeper, the same information cannot be obtained if the element in question is

> located in a third-party iframe.

Reviewer: I don't understand this sentence at all.

Author: Split up into two sentences.

## Why is actual visibility such a big deal?

> The Internet is, unfortunately, a place that attracts bad actors with even worse intentions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Internet is, unfortunately, a place that attracts bad actors with worse intentions.
```

For example, a shady publisher that serves pay-per-click ads on a content site might be incentivized
to trick people into clicking their ads to increase the publisher's ad payout (at least
for a short period, until the ad network catches them).
Typically, such ads are served in iframes.
Now if the publisher wanted to get users to click such ads, they could make the ad iframes
completely transparent by applying a CSS rule `iframe { opacity: 0; }` and overlaying the iframes
on top of something attractive, like a cute cat video that users would actually want to click.
This is called *clickjacking*.
You can see such a clickjacking attack in action in the upper section of this

> [demo](https://trick-ad-click.glitch.me/) (try "watching" the 🐈 cat video
> and ☑️ activate "trick mode").

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[demo](https://trick-ad-click.glitch.me/) (try "watching" the cat video
and activate "trick mode").
```

Reviewer: These emojis don't seem like they would pass the screen reader test. ("Try watching the cat cat video.")

You will notice that the ad in the iframe "thinks" it received legitimate clicks, even if it was

> completely transparent when you (pretendedly involuntarily) clicked it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
completely transparent when you (pretend-involuntarily) clicked it.
```

Reviewer: I don't know of a grammar rule that actually applies here, but my suggestion would sound more correct to Anglophone ears.

{% Img src="image/8WbTDNrhLsU0El80frMBGE4eMCD3/oSQhudX6lenD4Pld7PJD.png", alt="Tricking a user into clicking an ad by styling it transparent and overlaying it on top of something attractive.", width="800", height="533" %}

## How does Intersection Observer&nbsp;v2 fix this?

Intersection Observer&nbsp;v2 introduces the concept of tracking the actual "visibility" of a target
element as a human being would define it.
By setting an option in the
[`IntersectionObserver` constructor](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/IntersectionObserver/IntersectionObserver),
intersecting

> [`IntersectionObserverEntry`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/IntersectionObserverEntry)s

Reviewer: I don't understand what's after the comma.

Author: Yeah, it was weird. Rephrased.

(pardon the wrong plural ending here) will then contain a new boolean field named `isVisible`.
A `true` value for `isVisible` is a strong guarantee from the underlying implementation
that the target element is completely unoccluded by other content
and has no visual effects applied that would alter or distort its display on screen.
In contrast, a `false` value means that the implementation cannot make that guarantee.

An important detail of the
[spec](https://w3c.github.io/IntersectionObserver/v2/#calculate-visibility-algo)
is that the implementation *is permitted* to report *false negatives* (that is, setting `isVisible`
to `false` even when the target element is completely visible and unmodified).
For performance or other reasons, implementations should limit themselves to working with bounding
boxes and rectilinear geometry; they shouldn't try to achieve pixel-perfect results for

> modifications like `border-radius`.

Reviewer: >implementations should limit themselves

Browser implementations or uses of the API? Since this has been around for a while, we should know what browsers actually did rather than speculating on what they might do.

Author: Yeah, this needed rephrasing. Browser implementations was the one.

That said, *false positives* are *not permitted* under any circumstances (that is, setting
`isVisible` to `true` when the target element is not completely visible and unmodified).

{% Aside 'warning' %}
  Visibility is *much more expensive* to compute than intersection. For that reason,
  Intersection Observer&nbsp;v2 is *not intended to be used broadly* in the way that
  Intersection Observer&nbsp;v1 is. Intersection Observer&nbsp;v2 is focused on combatting fraud
  and should be used only when Intersection Observer&nbsp;v1 functionality is *truly* insufficient.

> {% endAside %}

Reviewer: This question feels like scope creep, but I'm going to ask it anyway.

What does "*truly* insufficient" mean? Seems like there's some additional guidance to be had in that question.

Author: I have made this clearer.

## What does the new code look like in practice?

The `IntersectionObserver` constructor now takes two additional configuration properties: `delay`
and `trackVisibility`.
The `delay` is a number indicating the minimum delay in milliseconds between notifications from
the observer for a given target.
The `trackVisibility` is a boolean indicating whether the observer will track changes in a target's
visibility.

> ⚠️ It's important to note here that when `trackVisibility` is `true`, `delay` is required to be at

Reviewer: At the very least, remove this symbol. Possibly turn this paragraph into a note.

Author: Emoji be gone.

> ⚠️ It's important to note here that when `trackVisibility` is `true`, `delay` is required to be at

Author: ```suggestion
It's important to note here that when `trackVisibility` is `true`, `delay` is required to be at
```

least `100` (that is, no more than one notification every 100ms).
As noted before, visibility is expensive to calculate, and this requirement is a precaution against

> performance degradation (and battery consumption). The responsible developer will use the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
performance degradation and battery consumption. The responsible developer will use the
```

Reviewer: That doesn't seem like a parenthetical issue. Why wasn't it mentioned, at least in passing, with the earlier reference to performnance?

*largest tolerable value* for delay.

According to the current
[spec](https://w3c.github.io/IntersectionObserver/v2/#calculate-visibility-algo), visibility is

> calculated as follows:

Reviewer: In my search for the spec I draft I noticed that the v1 spec has a date of Feb 3, 2021. This one has a date of Nov 4, 2019. This might lead some people to think v2 is on its way to the grave. Do you know what's going on.

Author: Yeah, spec work on V2 has halted for the moment in favor for work on V1, but V2 has not been abandoned.

- If the observer's `trackVisibility` attribute is `false`, then the target is considered visible.
This corresponds to the current&nbsp;v1 behavior.

- If the target has an effective transformation matrix other than a 2D&nbsp;translation
or proportional 2D&nbsp;upscaling, then the target is considered invisible.

- If the target, or any element in its containing block chain, has an effective opacity other than
1.0, then the target is considered invisible.

- If the target, or any element in its containing block chain, has any filters applied,
then the target is considered invisible.

- If the implementation cannot guarantee that the target is completely unoccluded by other page
content, then the target is considered invisible.

This means current implementations are pretty conservative with guaranteeing visibility.
For example, applying an almost unnoticeable grayscale filter like `filter: grayscale(0.01%)`
or setting an almost invisible transparency with `opacity: 0.99` would all render the element
invisible.

> Below is a short code sample that illustrates the new API features. You can see this click tracking

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Below is a short code sample that illustrates the new API features. You can see its click tracking
```

logic in action in the second section of the [demo](https://trick-ad-click.glitch.me/)

> (but now, try "watching" the 🐶 puppy video). Be sure to activate "trick mode" again to immediately

Reviewer: ```suggestion
(but now, try "watching" the puppy video). Be sure to activate "trick mode" again to immediately
```

convert yourself into a shady publisher and see how Intersection Observer&nbsp;v2 prevents
non-legitimate ad clicks from being tracked.
This time, Intersection Observer&nbsp;v2 has our back! 🎉

{% Aside %}

>   Different from typical lazy-loading code, if you use Intersection Observer to prevent this

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  In contrast to typical lazy-loading code, if you use Intersection Observer to prevent this
```

Reviewer: I know it's one more word than you used, but it's more idiomatic for English.

>   kind of clickjacking attacks, you *must not* `unobserve` the element after the first intersection.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  kind of clickjacking attack, you *must not* `unobserve` the element after the first intersection.
```

and many more.

{% YouTube 'kW_atFXMG98' %}

For the full details, check out the
[Intersection Observer docs on MDN](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Intersection_Observer_API),
but as a short reminder, this is what the Intersection Observer&nbsp;v1 API looks like in the most
basic case:

```js
const onIntersection = (entries) => {
  for (const entry of entries) {
    if (entry.isIntersecting) {
      console.log(entry);
    }
  }
};

const observer = new IntersectionObserver(onIntersection);
observer.observe(document.querySelector('#some-target'));
```

## What's challenging with Intersection Observer&nbsp;v1?

To be clear, Intersection Observer&nbsp;v1 is great, but it's not perfect. There are
some corner cases where the API falls short. Let's have a closer look!
The Intersection Observer&nbsp;v1 API can tell you when an element is scrolled into the
window's viewport, but it *doesn't* tell you whether the element is covered
by any other page content (that is, when the element is occluded) or whether
the element's visual display has been modified by visual effects like `transform`, `opacity`,
`filter`, etc., which *effectively* can make it invisible.

> Now while for an element in the top-level document this information can be determined by analyzing
> the DOM via JavaScript, for example via
> [`DocumentOrShadowRoot.elementFromPoint()`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/DocumentOrShadowRoot/elementFromPoint)
> and then digging deeper, the same information cannot be obtained if the element in question is
> located in a third-party iframe.

Author: ```suggestion
For an element in the top-level document, this information can be determined by analyzing
the DOM via JavaScript, for example via
[`DocumentOrShadowRoot.elementFromPoint()`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/DocumentOrShadowRoot/elementFromPoint)
and then digging deeper.
In contrast, the same information cannot be obtained if the element in question is
located in a third-party iframe.
```

for a short period, until the ad network catches them).
Typically, such ads are served in iframes.
Now if the publisher wanted to get users to click such ads, they could make the ad iframes
completely transparent by applying a CSS rule `iframe { opacity: 0; }` and overlaying the iframes
on top of something attractive, like a cute cat video that users would actually want to click.
This is called *clickjacking*.
You can see such a clickjacking attack in action in the upper section of this
[demo](https://trick-ad-click.glitch.me/) (try "watching" the cat video
and activate "trick mode").
You will notice that the ad in the iframe "thinks" it received legitimate clicks, even if it was
completely transparent when you (pretend-involuntarily) clicked it.

{% Img src="image/8WbTDNrhLsU0El80frMBGE4eMCD3/oSQhudX6lenD4Pld7PJD.png", alt="Tricking a user into clicking an ad by styling it transparent and overlaying it on top of something attractive.", width="800", height="533" %}

## How does Intersection Observer&nbsp;v2 fix this?

Intersection Observer&nbsp;v2 introduces the concept of tracking the actual "visibility" of a target
element as a human being would define it.

> By setting an option in the
> [`IntersectionObserver` constructor](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/IntersectionObserver/IntersectionObserver),
> intersecting
> [`IntersectionObserverEntry`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/IntersectionObserverEntry)s
> (pardon the wrong plural ending here) will then contain a new boolean field named `isVisible`.

Author: ```suggestion
By setting an option in the
[`IntersectionObserver` constructor](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/IntersectionObserver/IntersectionObserver),
intersecting
[`IntersectionObserverEntry`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/IntersectionObserverEntry)
instances will then contain a new boolean field named `isVisible`.
```

A `true` value for `isVisible` is a strong guarantee from the underlying implementation
that the target element is completely unoccluded by other content
and has no visual effects applied that would alter or distort its display on screen.
In contrast, a `false` value means that the implementation cannot make that guarantee.

An important detail of the
[spec](https://w3c.github.io/IntersectionObserver/v2/#calculate-visibility-algo)
is that the implementation *is permitted* to report *false negatives* (that is, setting `isVisible`
to `false` even when the target element is completely visible and unmodified).

> For performance or other reasons, implementations should limit themselves to working with bounding

Author: ```suggestion
For performance or other reasons, browsers limit themselves to working with bounding
```

> boxes and rectilinear geometry; they shouldn't try to achieve pixel-perfect results for

Author: ```suggestion
boxes and rectilinear geometry; they don't try to achieve pixel-perfect results for
```

modifications like `border-radius`.

That said, *false positives* are *not permitted* under any circumstances (that is, setting
`isVisible` to `true` when the target element is not completely visible and unmodified).

{% Aside 'warning' %}
  Visibility is *much more expensive* to compute than intersection. For that reason,
  Intersection Observer&nbsp;v2 is *not intended to be used broadly* in the way that
  Intersection Observer&nbsp;v1 is. Intersection Observer&nbsp;v2 is focused on combatting fraud

>   and should be used only when Intersection Observer&nbsp;v1 functionality is *truly* insufficient.

Author: ```suggestion
  and should be used only when the visibility information is needed and
  when Intersection Observer&nbsp;v1 functionality is therefore insufficient.
```
